

Three ideas for capstone project 1

Project
Idea 1:

Data set: Digit Recognizer

http://
www.kaggle.com/c/digit-recognizer/data

 

Data set introduction:

The
data files train.csv and test.csv contain gray-scale images of hand-drawn digits,
from zero through nine. Each image is 28 pixels in height and 28 pixels in
width, for a total of 784 pixels in total. 

The
training data set, (train.csv), has 785 columns. The first column, called
"label", is the digit that was drawn by the user. The rest of the
columns contain the pixel-values of the associated image. The test data set,
(test.csv), is the same as the training set, except that it does not contain
the "label" column.

Story to tell: To evaluate the
proportion of test images that are correctly classified. For example, a
categorization accuracy of 0.97 indicates that you have correctly classified
all but 3% of the images.

 

Potential client: Digit
recognition is widely used in image processing of medical industry and it also
plays an important role in hand written recognition.

 

Project
Idea 2:

Data set: Default of credit card clients

http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/default+of+credit+card+clients

Story to tell: This research
aimed at the case of customer credit card default payments in Taiwan and
compares the predictive accuracy of probability of default among six data
mining methods. This study is also to investigate if the result of predictive
accuracy of the estimated probability of default will be more valuable than the
binary result of classification - credible or not credible clients.

 

Potential client: Insurance Company, bank.

 

Project
Idea 3:

Data set: Twitter data set for
Arabic Sentimental Analysis

http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Twitter+Data+set+for+Arabic+Sentiment+Analysis

Data set introduction: By using a tweet crawler, 2000 labelled tweets (1000 positive tweets and
1000 negative ones) were collected. On various topics such as: politics
and arts. These tweets include opinions written in both Modern Standard
Arabic (MSA) and the Jordanian dialect. 

 

Story to tell: The selected tweets convey some
kind of feelings (positive or negative) and the objective of our model is to
extract valuable information from such tweets in order to determine the
sentiment orientation of the inputted text. 

 

Potential client: Social media.

 

